# Python_Realtime_TxRx
This is code for CSS-based modulation/demodulation using USRP B200 and GNURADIO. 

Realtime (~1s) Tx-Rx Mod/Demod Code with USRP + GNURADIO Python Implementation

## Instructions for 3 USRP Experiments 
Tx USRP -> Transmits our custom CSS packets
Transponder -> Shifts signal from Tx USRP to another frequency and applies a simulated doppler shift 
Rx USRP -> Demodulates and assess BER, packet loss, etc. in realtime (~1s) 

### Tx USRP Setup 
1. Change desired parameters in genExperimentFile.py, including output file location and any parameters in the top half relating to BW, chirp length (SF), upsampling rate, etc. 
2. Supply this file to simpleTX

### Transponder USRP Setup 
1. Run transponder_sim/transponder.grc, ensure uplink/downlink frequencies are correct.  

### Rx USRP Setup  
1. Run simpleRx.grc, and then run rx_stream_zmq.py. You should see a reported "Max Rx: " in the command window, confirming connectivity with GNURADIO and the USRP. The value printed in rx_stream_zmq.py may be used to set the envelope threshold, DB_THRESH, in rx_stream_zmq.py --> Demodulation only occurs if the received power exceeds this threshold. 
2. 


## Simple Test of Realtime Data Without USRPS (from synthetic data and GNURADIO channel model) 
1. simpleTX_sim/genTxFile.py generates raw CSS data into binaryTXdata according to the 'symbols' variable. 
2. Run simpleTX_fromUDP.grc after changing File Source file to point to the file generated by genTxFile.py
3. Run rx_stream_zmq.py :: Check that 'CSS Specifics' match the parameters set in genTxFile (SF, end-delimeter, etc)
   Packets should begin decoding in the output cmd line according to RAW_FS, which determines how many samples must be 
   received before demodulating begins

## Tx/Rx with Two USRPs instructions 
1. Connect each USRP to separate computers with GNURADIO and Python scripts. 
2. On one computer/USRP (1), run simpleRX_sim/simpleRx.grc in GNURADIO. Note the address and port 
   (127.0.0.1 and 4.9k): these should match the port on rx_stream_zmq.py. A QT GUI should pop up showing Rx noise. 
3. Run rx_stream.py on (1) and ensure that window shows "Packet not detected" if the transmitter is not on. 
4. On the other computer/USRP (2), run simpleTX_sim/simpleTX_fromZMQ. Note the address and port (4444), 
   should also match the Python script. 
5. On (2), run the Python script simpleTX_sim/tx_stream_zmq.py: This transmits a 57-length packet 
   continuously, but this can be changed. 
6. Spectrogram on (1) should show a received signal and the window from rx_stream.py should show "Packet detected" 
   along with the demodulated symbols defined in tx_stream_zmq.py 

## simpleTx_sim Separate Instructions 
Run tx_stream_zmq.py and change port and ZMQ to match simpleTX_fromUDP.grc, as well as buffer size. 
Can view in GNURADIO GUI, save to file, or send over UDP again to rx_stream.py 

## NOTES 
* Doppler correction can be done via GNURADIO using GPREDICT --> should we move this over? 
* Synthetic data generated are in simpleTX_sim/test_data/, and are named accordingly , make sure to change parameters in rx_stream.py
	* If you are sending custom data, make sure there is zero padding as the buffer in rx_stream_zmq needs to have some samples before performing correlation.
* Using ZMQ here, since UDPs performance varies

## TODO 
* Test different scale implementations, combine GNURADIO doppler correction
